---
layout: post
title: The New Atom Schema is up!
categories: [API, Atom, schema]
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://ouvre-boite.com
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
alias: /API/Atom/schema/atom-schema/
---

We deployed yesterday a new code for our parsers, and it now includes a more "complete schema":http://documentation.superfeedr.com/schema.html that will allow you to do a lot more things with superfeedr!

h3. Content or summary?

Up until now we were considering that anything was a summary, which wasn't really accurate since some feeds actually *offer the whole content*. We fixed that. If the entry contains the full content, you'll have a <code><content></code> tag, if not, then, it will have a <code><summary></code> tag.

h3. Links

The biggest addition is the fact that <code><entry></code> elements now include all the <code><links></code> of the original entry, including attachments. Of course, to differentiate between them you can use the _<code>"rel"</code> value_, as well as <code>"type"</code> which gives you the _mime type_. For example, here is what you'd receive for this flick RSS feed :

{% prism javascript %}  
<entry xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
	<title>IMAG0346</title>
	<id>tag:flickr.com,2005:/photo/3931639648</id>
	<published>2009-09-18T13:30:19Z</published>
	<content>&lt;p&gt;&lt;a href="http://www.flickr.com/people/fbernard1706/"&gt;@choum&lt;/a&gt; posted a photo:&lt;/p&gt;
		&lt;p&gt;&lt;a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/fbernard1706/3931639648/" title="IMAG0346"&gt;&lt;img src="http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2497/3931639648_3437ffa730_m.jpg" width="240" height="180" alt="IMAG0346" /&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
	</content>
	<link type="text/html" title="" href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/fbernard1706/3931639648/" rel="alternate"/>
	<link type="image/jpeg" title="" href="http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2497/3931639648_3437ffa730_m.jpg" rel="enclosure"/>
	<category term="sergio"/>
	<category term="expo"/>
	<category term="lyon"/>
	<category term="western"/>
	<category term="prefecture"/>
	<category term="leone"/>
	<author>
		<name>@choum</name>
		<uri>http://www.flickr.com/people/fbernard1706/</uri>
		<email/>
	</author>
</entry>
{% endprism %}

As you can see, there are 2 <code><link></code> elements, *one for the entry* (the page that contains the image), and *one for the image itself*. These links are various and may include links to the _comments section, to the RSS feed of comments, to any attachment, to related articles_... etc.

h3. Categories

The Web2.0 era has long be associated with the presence of *tags*, implemented by "Delicious":http://delicious.com, "Flickr":http://flickr.com, "Youtube":http://youtube.com and by bloggers. They are very useful to group things and can do a better job than search engines to find "binary" content. *Superfeedr will now provide the tags* (or categories from the original entries).
In the above example, you can see that the tags used are _sergio, expo, lyon, western and prefecture_.

h3. Authors

Last, but not least, we now support *author informations*. There can be several authors in one entry. For each author, we provide (when available) a _name, an email address and a profile URI_.

If you'd like anything else to be added, please let us know in the comments. With the current information, we estimate we cover 80-90% of the original entry content. Also, if you're not satisfied with our mapping, please do not hesitate to "suggest fixes":http://blog.superfeedr.com/Atom/schema/a-better-schema/ as well.
