---
layout: post
title: "10 Feed Publishing Best Practices"
categories: [Feeds, RSS, Atom, Best Practice]
description: "Publishing RSS feeds can seem trivial. Yet, so many people do it wrong, even within the large companies. Here are some good practices if you're adding RSS feeds to your app. This is better for your users, the apps consuming the feeds and you!"
tags: [RSS, best practice, openweb]

---

Working with publishers and polling hundreds of thousands of feed has taught us a few lessons and best practices for people who publish RSS or Atom feeds. You might disagree with some of them, so please, let us know in the comments.

I want to emphasize that these best practices are _technical_, not business related.

# *Don't use RSS and ATOM*. There is no good feed parser that doesn't accept both. Providing one will make subscribers life much easier :)
# Make sure your feeds are *valid*.
# Use *unique identifiers* for entries : @<guid>@ in RSS and @<id>@ in ATOM
# *Don't use feed caching* if you can't explicitly expire the cache. In other words, don't use time based caches. _Corollary : use Feedburner only if you use pingshot_.
# Make sure your *date format is valid* : @ISO8601@ is the one you should choose.
# Add the feeds *discovery* in your HTML pages. Most modern browsers (Chrome : WTF?!) will be able to detect that and show your visitors that the page references a feed. It will also help feed readers to auto-extract feeds.
# Make sure you're *RESTful* in your feeds discovery. If you're in a resource page, show feeds that relate to that resource. Make sure a given feed is accessible at a given url only.
# Use the "de-facto" standard in terms of *calendar : Roman*. The subscribing app may convert to other calendar, based on the user's settings.
# Keep the *feed urls simple*. Do some URL rewriting.
# It's ok to have only @<summary>@ instead of the full @<content>@ (it's a business decision) : but don't show it as full content if it's just a summary.
# *Special Bonus* : publish feeds in realtime. "We can help":http://superfeedr.com/publisher.

Thoughts?
