---
layout: post
title: A social filtering algorithm
categories: [social, algorithm]
---

This post is not directly related to what Superfeedr is building but to what we're seeing as a trend in the social applications field. About 10 years ago, a small company called "Google":http://www.google.com/ wiped out any competing search engine with their "PageRank algorithm":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PageRank. This one, without going into a lot of details was based on *reputation of a web page* : the more other pages have links to it, the more accurate it has to be.

If you're a "Facebook":http://www.facebook.com/ user (and haven't quit yet :D), you've probably seen at the top of your *News Feed*, that you can choose between *Top News* and *Most Recent*. The latter is an _exhaustive list_ of what all activities in your social graph, while the 1st one is _only a subset_ of it. I believe the algorithm that is being used here is probably _one of the few social filtering algorithm_ out there.

h3. Why does it matter?

It's no scoop to say that we're slowly getting overwhelmed with data and activities in our networks. At the same time, _this is data that we want to get_, but data that we can't deal with. This is what is extremely frustrating. I think it's a *tremendous value proposition* for a service to provide me with the *social data from my network in a way that I can consume in minutes*, rather than hours.

Obviously this is very hard to build and even though I found Facebook algorithm ok, I keep clicking on Recent news to see the exhaustive news. I have also curated myself a lot of content (mainly by hiding apps, or fan pages that are too "verbose"). It's probably *harder to build* because it's a *negative algorithm* : it has to remove stuff, while the page rank and other algorithm are positive : they extract the relevant data.

If you're doing any research on this topic, I'm sure you'll find a job quite soon at any of the startups are trying to build out these social consuming applications.
