---
layout: post
title: Arbitrary Content support
categories: []
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://twitter.com/julien51
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

I've read several times that it's *dumb to do the same thing more than twice*. If that happens, it means that you can automate it and never do it any more.

Today we're announcing arbitrary content support, which means that you'll be able to _subscribe to any kind of content on the web_, rather than constantly poll it.

It's extremely simple to start subscribing to JSON endpoint or to any kind of arbitrary content.

For example, the fine people at "Gravatar":http://en.gravatar.com/ offer a JSON url for the profile data of their users, so that rather than poll it every day to check for updates, services could just subscribe to the profiles and be notified when they updated. It's certainly more convenient!

How to do such a thing? Well, it's a simple *PubSubHubbub* call. Nothing more, nothing less.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/732667.js?file=gistfile1.txt"></script>

Next time this page updates, Superfeedr will send you the new JSON, so you can update that on your own side.

h3. Publishers

We are working with a few API producers to make their APIs realtime, so that not only susbcribers get the data pushed to them, but also in a timely manner. 

Of course, if you're a publisher interested by this, "please get in touch":http://superfeedr.com/about. It's relatively simple to implement and won't break your authentication requirements (API keys, OAuth... etc). It should also save a lot of your bandwidth =)



