---
title: JSON retrieve
tags: [feed api, RSS, JSON, retrieve]
description: "Not only Superfeedr can convert RSS or Atom into JSON when upon notification, but we can also convert RSS to JSON when retrieving the past content for any RSS feed."
---

This is the second week ("first week is here":/feature-friday-pubsubhubbub-tricks/) of our #FeatureFriday series! I've been traveling quite a bunch in the past few days, so I haven't been able to push as much code as I hoped, but we have a released a bunch of features and fixed a few bugs again :)

h3. JSON when retrieving a feed status

This was a request by the folks at "SocialFlow":http://www.socialflow.com/. Nothing fancy : you can "subscribe to feeds and get JSON":http://documentation.superfeedr.com/schema.html#json pushed to you, so why wouldn't you be able to "retrieve a feed's":http://documentation.superfeedr.com/subscribers.html#retrievingentrieswithpubsubhubbub status on get JSON? Since we didn't have a good answer to this, we implemented JSON feed retrieval :) Just submit an <code>Accept</code> header with <code>application/json</code>.

h3. Fixed SSL certificates

It's a shame, but for some reason, I missed the fact that our SSL certificates had expired. Needless to say that the warning at at least very annoying. We gave a few more dollars to Godaddy and our *SSL certificates are now up to date*!

h3. Higher pricing levels

Our beloved customers use Superfeedr more and more, and we're happy to say that a few of them grew beyond our current pricing levels. Luckily for us, we're able to save more $$$s when people use us more and we'd like to thank these customer for being so faithful, so we introduced to extra layers to our pricing :

* $1 for 5,000 notifications between 3,700,000 and 15,700,000
* $1 for 6,000 notifications between 15,700,000 and 51,700,000
* *$1 for 7,000 notifications* above 51,700,000!

Use our "simulation tool":http://superfeedr.com/orders/new to see what's going on woth your level of pricing!


Keep the #FeatureFriday requests coming!
