---
layout: post
title: Web apps vs. native apps
categories: []
author_name: Julien
author_uri: http://ouvre-boite.com
author_email_md5: b30ce50678f0e934eaa6697425c59dd7
---

"Facebook finally surrendered to Apple":https://www.facebook.com/notes/facebook-engineering/under-the-hood-rebuilding-facebook-for-ios/10151036091753920 and rewrote their app as a full native iOS app, rather than using Webkit's Webview. This may look like a good news to all the Facebook junkies, but it's actually a very bad news for all the web lovers, because it slowly pushes the *false idea that native apps are better* and that HTML5 apps can't reach that same level of performance.

Why is it bad you ask? Well, because the thing I love the most about my little phone is its data plan, the fact that I can access the web... with *no one acting as a filter*! No watchdog who could decide what app I should use or not. Unfortunately, _iOS apps are a trap_!
Not only the architecture, the language or even the layout are fully controlled by a single entity, but also what app can be installed or not as well, and finally, even the price at which they can (or can't be sold). A couple months ago, the whole internet roared about *net neutrality*, thinking that telcos where to feared, and now that Apple's doing just that, everybody is silent?

The Twitter principle (it probably predates Twitter though) is clear: *when you build your business on a proprietary plaform, there IS a day when that platform comes after you, shuts you down or even copies you*.

I get the valid argument that eventually users to decide, and they wanted a faster Facebook app. _I wanted a faster Facebook app_. But who said that to be faster it had to be full native? Apple! Remember, Apple wants Facebook to be their b****, and the best way to do that is to make sure they're not satisfied with the performance of their WebView. Did I suggest that Apple may be purposedly slowing down things? Did I suggest that Apple may not have offered all the HTML5 features to this view to make it not as great for the user? I did, because if I were Apple, I'd do just that.

There are ways to build apps on the web that are as performant as native apps: browsers have apps/extension. *These are coming from the desktop to the mobile platforms as well*. We will have a great battle between the natives (iOS, Android) or the web (Chrome, Firefox). I hope you'll chose the web.



